---
title: "KraftKit WG, October 5, 2022"
tags: unikraft, kraft, kraftkit
datetime: 2022-10-05T13:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- kraft
participants:
- TODO
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps
- October release

## :closed_book: Discussions

CC: I polished the GitHub workflows.

CC: I got back to the PR outputing to the console.
It prints the errors after the `make` process completes.

AJ: We should only be manipulating what's coming out of make.

CC: I'm not changing that.
I'm just printing some whitespaces.

CC: There is a section inside the `kraft.yaml` with configuration options.
The current approach generates a `defconfig` file with all options that is then passed to the build system.

CC: I'll fix inside the PR and then get back to the `set` and `unset` issue.

GM: There is an issue with `libc-test` reported by Maria and È˜tefan.
It's an issue of not recognizing the the `lib-` prefix, inside the regular expression implementation of kraftkit.

GM: I then looked into Cezar's workflow PRs.

AA: I did some fixes and support for Costin.

AJ: I've been working on Kraft events.
We will have a utility called `kraft ps` that will show all running VMs.

AJ: We're trying to have the `kraft` similar to other tools in the container environment.

RD/AJ: We're all set for a release to happen in late October.

AJ: Work on manifest-related issues.

AJ: Then we can work on templating for applications.

AJ: There is a discussion whether we have a separate repository for template files or we 

GM: We have to consider the usage of the old `kraft`.

GM: If you make a general repository with all files, you will have to configure it.

AJ: Kraftkit will take care of that behind the scenes.

GM: For each app there will be a location of the app `kraft.yaml` file.

AJ: In my ideal world, you would only specify a version and then kraft / Unikraft will handle that behind the scenes.

AJ: I'll let this sync in.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

CC: Add PR on configuration variables.

GM: Look into Cezar's workflow PRs.

GM: Fix regex issues with `lib`.

AJ: Upstream `kraft events`.

RD: Re-engage the `kraftkit` testing team.

Everyone: Think about the placement of template files.

Meetings from now on will take place on Wednesdays, 11am CEST.
