---
title: "Kraft WG, October 26, 2022"
tags: unikraft, kraft
datetime: 2022-10-26T11:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- kraft
participants:
- ȘtefanJ
- Costi
- Gabi
- Cezar
- AndreiA
- RăzvanD
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Current status
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

RD: Alex made progress on `kraft run`.
He will be back with updates.

SJ: I started testing Alex's changes.

SJ: There is an issue with `kraft events`.
Now it's OK.

CC: There is a publicly available link to publish the index.
Now it's much faster and doesn't require

CC: I worked on a package interface that downloads a script that pipes it to a command.
It adds sources to apt and yum and then installs `kraftkit`.

CC: There is a workflow that publishes packages.

Wait for Alex to make announcements for index website, script and packaging.

CC: On the moment, there are all in PRs.

CC: Unclear what the next steps for me.
Have to wait for Alex.

GM: I took care of two issue.
Issue 103 doesn't replicate, on the `libc-test`.

An idea is to create an empty repository to reproduce the issue.

GM: PR 102 is for better error handling.
Solves an issue.

GM: I approved a PR review.
I will also check other PRs.

CR: I worked on issue 34 for flags.
This depends issue 36.
The flag grouping is difficult to implement: there are different options.
I can provide something based on `kubectl`.

AA: Costin's paper is submitted.

AA: The initial release should be without kubectl.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

SJ: Investigate `kraft events` issue furter.

GM: Add empty repository and an empty source to replicate the issue.

GM: Work on PR 102.

CC: Wait for Alex's updates.

CR: Create draft PR with grouping proposal for issues 36.

AJ: Decide what / when to announce regarding packaging and indexing of `kraftkit` (based on Cezar's work).

AJ: Come up with proposal for Andrei to continue.

AA: Wait for ideas of contiinued work from Alex.
