---
title: "Maintainers Meeting, October 31, 2022"
tags: unikraft, maintainers
datetime: 2022-10-31T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#maintainers-voice` voice channel
teams:
- maintainers
participants:
- Hugo
- Marco
- Simon
- Marc
- Michalis
- Cezar
- RÄƒzvanD
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Platform rearchitecting
- Binary / Application support
- Security

## :closed_book: Discussions

HL: We'll discuss security topics at the meeting on Friday, November 4, 2022.

RD: On the binary / app compatibility side, there are several ongoing items:
- Musl integration: we're making progress towards getting it done
- ELF loader: this it to be provided by Simon as an updated version, soon with dynamic executable support
- Application porting will be facilitated by Musl.
- Add / fix / improve system call implementation towards full POSIX support.
- Add Unikraft support subsystems as required by interface: `posix-mmap` (Marc), signal support will be likely part of `posix-process` (Simon).

SK: The ELF loader will still be in experimental state.
There will be some changes required on macro values and on structure layout.
We need to provide ABI compatibility.

HL: What about the Munich hackathon?

RD: It went really well.
A good number of technically skilled participants.
Plenty of work done.

RD: Great support from organizers.
We're likely going to do it as an yearly event in Munich.

SK: What about the CI/CD system?

CC/RD: There are no updates.
We'll talk to Alex about fixing the current work and delegating the work to Cezar.

MP: On the plat rearch, we will do an initial meeting with key people to have a starting point.
Then we can do a hackathon.

RD: Regarding the epics on documentation, unit tests and Doxygen, I want to involve more people to work on those.
What should be the approach.

SK: For more common libraries, an assignee could start working on those and then the library owner would jump in and provide guidance.

MP: Internal documentation should be pulled on the main website.

RD/SK: Yes, this is the goal:
to extract the core repository documentation and push it as an API on the website.

MP: For new libraries, provide some requirements for authors: minimal documentation, Doxygen-style comments, minimal unit tests.

SK: The assignee could also start some tests based on the API.

MP: The owner is of course the main person to start the tests.
Bu the assignee could complement with different test ideas.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RD: Schedule a meeting a week after the current this one.

RD: Start surveying the community for people to work on epics for documentation, comments, unit testing.

RD: Talk to Alex about restarting the CI/CD system.
