---
title: "Maintainers' Meeting, July 25, 2022"
tags: unikraft, maintainers
datetime: 2022-07-25T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- maintainers
participants:
- Felipe Huici
- Pierre Olivier
- Cezar Craciunoiu
- Gabriel Mocanu
- Simon Kuenzer
- Alexander Jung
- Vlad Badoiu
- Marc Rittinghaus
- Michalis Pappas
---

## :dart: Agenda

- kraftkit
- bootloader
- libmusl
- memory balooning
- coding style
- naming conventions

## :closed_book: Discussions

### 1. :rocket: Kraftkit

AJ: `Ukpkg` is now working and is available and you can retrieve and download github repositories.

AJ: Using this no longer requires having a Github Token.

AJ: Currently focused on developers, next up is building (`ukbuild`).

AJ: The building part should be done by the end of this week.

FH: When is parity expected to be done?

AJ: September basically.

AJ: After parity, the main focus should be `ukdeploy`. This absorbs `plat-gcp`/`plat-*` to login and deploy your application to the cloud.

AJ: In the future, each file/project should have a template, similar to docker-compose.

### 2. :boot: Bootloader Support

FH: Cristi is missing so we don't have much to discuss.

### 3. :muscle: Libmusl

SK: We have some problems with flags when building, but fixes are ongoing.

SK: I think we can have an initial draft published this week, so people can try it.

### 4. :balloon: Memory Ballooning

CC: The current implementation is more like a proof-of-concept and is very specific. I feel like a rewrite is needed and maybe someone else with more experience can adopt the discussion.

SK: I would integrate Marc in the future and a/another person can work closely with him after paging is done.

CC: Each platform and allocator has it's own point where the ballooning happens and a different API.

SK: Yes, that's why we probably need a rewrite after paging comes from Marc.

### 5. :baby: Naming Conventions

MP: I think we should leave it for the gathering in Romania. There's a lot of people and a lot of time to discuss such things.

SK: Good point.

### 6. :keyboard: Coding Style

MR: I think we should look over the document we posted some time ago and discuss it.

MP: Actually this is really useful.

MP: I think we need to write things as we review PRs.

MR: Yes, I think we can have a final discussion after this PR cycle.

### 7. :dice: Memory Randomisation

MR & SK: Not sure how this got assigned to us. I think we can wait for Razvan so he can add more on this.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

CC: Add fixes from Hugo and mark the PR as draft for now.

AJ: Continue working on kraftkit and `ukbuild`.

All: Continue writing in the document whatever ideas we have.
