---
datetime: 2021-12-08T13:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - Alex
  - RazvanD
  - RazvanV
  - Sergiu
  - PaulV
  - CristiV
  - Cezar
  - Cyril
  - Fredrik
  - AndreiA
  - Dennis
  - Gabi
---

### Agenda

* Summary of 0.6 release (Dione)
* Planning for 0.7 release (Mimas): January 31, 2021
* Planned community workshops / tutorials: FOSDEM, Germany Systems, Asia Workshop, ASPLOS'22 Tutorial, Xen Summit 2022
* GSoC / Outreachy
* VSCode IDE
* SMP
* ARM
* Loupe / Syscalls
* uksched
* Rust
* support for new platforms: VMware, Hyper-V, GCP, AWS
* virtual memory support
* kraft
* documentation
* bootloaders
* SMP demo
* PR walkthrough for release 0.7: https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/projects/12

### Discussions

There are some hot fixes for 0.6.1.

We didn't bump the kraft.yaml version for all application files.

To get the relase automation done. We want to make things more systematic.

AJ: I registered Unikraft with the VS Code extension.

CV: I'm waiting for Marc to review. There are some things to be added, but after the review.
CV: Activating more than 256 CPUs requires some modifications.
CV: Virtual memory requires additional mapping.
CV: What if APIC is not supported for older CPUs?
For more CPUs, we want to be able to start more CPUs in parallel.

RV: For ARM as well: start in parallel.
RV: Marc brought an API that is more generic for SMCC support in ARM64.

RV: Simon came with a possible fix on the syscalls in libsyscall-shim for ARM.

SM: Loupe work under way.

CS/FB: I'm reviewing some patches from Vlad. This is the internal ukrust library.

FB: I tried to investigate GCP. I didn't see any terminal output.

PV: Not much on Hyper-V. I went into some tutorials on x86 architecture.

PV: I checked the Hyper-V integration in Linux and FreeBSD.

PV: We need to implement some drivers.

PV: There are two versions for VMs. 1 is BIOS and 2 is UEFI.

MS: I'm currently on the nvme driver to work on the KVM support. It currently works on KVM support.

CV: I helped Aaddhi with the the initrd part.

AJ: Aaddhi has been looking into multiple ways to an ISO. He's receiving a page fault.

DK: Vlad has been working on upstreaming my work. We are now able to build Rust packages without cargo.

GM: I'm reviewing the Lua PRs. I'm still investigating that problem with Nginx.

AA: I need to fix something with VMs running inside containers. Right now I need to understand what's happening when I deploy a VM in a cluster.

### TODOs and Decisions

* RD: Expand the CI/CD infrastructure on UPB.
* MR: Review PRs for SMP.
* RD: Schedule a meeting on Hyper-V support.
* RD: Discuss internally about ext support.
* RD: Arrange a meeting on GCP meeting.
* RD: Start discussions on GSoC + FOSDEM.
