---
datetime: 2021-11-24T13:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#cofee-break` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - Alex
  - RazvanD
  - RazvanV
  - Sergiu
  - PaulU
  - PaulV
  - CristiV
  - Cezar
  - Vlad
---

### Agenda

* open source community
* issues to be discussed: kraft, build dependencies, sycalls on ARM64
* release: Monday, November 29, 2021
* Uniprof / profiling
* SMP
* ARM
* mmap API
* language support (Rust, D)
* fs support
* IDE support
* bootloader replacement / EFI support
* PR walkthrough
* CI / CD + governance
* SMP demo (Cristi Vijelie)
* next demo (for Wednesday, December 8, 2021)

### Discussions

RD: We're making preparations for the 0.6 (Dione) release on November 29, 2021.

RD: We're at 418 stars.

RD: Multiple ideas to further market Unikraft:

* FOSDEM workshop (beginning of February)
* Asia-centric workshop
* Germany (maybe in conjunction with FOSDEM)
* ASPLOS'22 workshop (late February)
* Xen Summit (late June 2022, UPB, live)
* Google Summer of Code / Outreachy projects

AJ: I made a lot of progress on the governance part and the CI/CD system.
This has been updated to use the `Reviewed-by` + `Approved-by`.
Inside the governance repository we have teams defined.
Once the permissions check is done, it's going to be the merging bit.
The last thing I'm working on is the automatic assignment of reviewers + maintainers for each PR.

AJ: The assignment of PRs will be done considering load-balancing.
A maintainer is called an `Assignee`: it is a shepherd, it oversees the entire PR.

AJ: The CI/CD system will automatically pick these people to be part of this PR.

AJ: I want to also automatically assign labels to each PR.

AJ: If there's an `Approved-by` it's merged, even if `Reviewed-by` is absent.
This should only happen if it's a hot fix.

AJ: At the moment there is requirement for a `Reviewed-by` and `Approved-by`.

AJ: We can run this preemptively using the script we already have.

CV: The common API PR can be approved.

RV: On ARM in general.
A PR from Jianyong was approved.
The bug was important to fix.

CV/RD: We'll postpone the demo for December 8, 2021.

CV: Aadhi mentioned an issue on the general channel.
I asked him to `make` for now.

Release video plan: https://docs.google.com/document/d/12xemxBC_K-0AoPnzTdIjOA-L0ltXI6UkzXJ4r6Lbw5s/edit#heading=h.q6nheq28i8no

AJ: Kubernetes and Concourse also do release videos.

RD: `ukstore` will likely not be part of the release.

### Tasks / Decisions

AJ: Complete the CI/CD work.

RV: Investigate syscall shim conflict with ARM64.

RD: Ping OpenSynergy to look into mmap API.

VB: Close Rust-related PRs that are not relevant anymore.

CV: Create set of slides for release video.

RD: Ping everyone to fill slides.

RD: Announce hackathon on Saturday, November 27, 2021.

RD: Plan recording of release presentation.

Everyone: Look into PRs where you are assigned as reviewers.

We meet next on Wednesday, December 8, 2021.
December 1, 2021 is the National Day in Romania.
