---
title: "Musl WG, November 2, 2022"
tags: unikraft, TODO
datetime: 2022-11-02T13:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- musl-syscall
participants:
- Dragoș
- Simon
- Florin
- Robert
- RăzvanD
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

RD: We've a bunch of people working on Musl: testing, reviewing.
Simon, I left you as an assignee only for critical PRs on Musl.

RD: We have scripts that allow easy testing of Musl integration.

RD: Robert, it would be great if you could test the scripts on Aarch64.

FP: Update my draft PR with some modification to `Config.uk`.
I think on Friday, they will be complete.

FP: I will need to do more testing, because some 

SK: We need to move parts of `uksignal` to `nolibc`.
All those items that are normally part of Musl should be part of `nolibc`.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

SK: Rewrite commit history of PRs.

DA: Update commit messages for threading PR.

RD: Add scripts for tests (from Dragoș and Florin).

FP: Group tests.

RD: Fix LWIP + Musl issues.

RD: Provide fix proposal for uksignal.
