---
datetime: 2022-04-28T10:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - AlexJ
  - Felipe
  - Gauthier
  - Terry
  - Simon
  - Gabi
  - Sergiu
  - CristiV
  - Cezar
  - RăzvanV
  - RăzvanD
  - Caleb
  - Florin
  - Hugo
  - PaulV
---

## Agenda

* Community summary
* Planning release 0.9 (May 30, 2022)
* Projects / people updates
  * ARM (RăzvanV, Michalis)
  * Paging support (Marc, Michalis, Florin)
  * ukthread / Musl / clone (Simon, Dragoș)
  * VSCode IDE (Adina, Ștefan)
  * procfs (AndreiM)
  * Firecracker support (AndreiT)
  * VMware support (PaulU)
  * Hyper-V support (PaulV)
  * Randomness support (Sebastian, Michalis)
  * SMP (Marc, Michalis, Rene, RăzvanV, CristiV)
  * Bootloader support (CristiV, Aadhi)
  * Uniprof / Profiling (Gabi)
  * Gcov (AlexP, RăzvanD)
  * SSH server AlexandraP
  * Xen clone-based fuzzing (Radu)
  * Generic OS / unkernel fuzzing (Teo)
  * Memory randomization / deduplication (Terry)
  * Javascript support (AlexA)
  * Rust support (Vlad, Dennis, DanU)
  * Baremetal support (adminy)
  * kraft / runu / kraftkit (AlexJ, Ștefan, Gabi, AndreiA)
  * CI/CD (AlexJ)
  * synchronization / futexes (Adina)
* Others

## Discussions

### Community summary

GSoC evaluation deadline is May 12, 2022.
We did a brief walkthough of the projects.

Lyon hackathon will happen in the weekend of May 14-15, 2022.
Hugo, Pierre, Gaulthier will be there in person.
I will attend online.
We will use content from the ASPLOS'22 hackathon + updates.
Virtual machines provided by UPB for common ground.

We will designe challenges for porting new applications / running in binary compat mode.
Looking for 2 extra people from the community to help.
We'll do a meeting next week (Tuesday, Wednesday, May 3-4, 2022)

The Aachen hackathon will take place in the June 25-26, 2022 weekend.
We will start advertising it next week.

Apollo bot to schedule meeting.

Hackathon on Saturday, April 30, 2022.
Host will be Gabi Mocanu.

### 0.9 Release: Hyperion

Planned for May 30, 2022.

Please start looking in PRs.

Create (draft) PRs of your work.

What we want in: SMP, Musl / ukthread, VMM for ARM, ukstore (?)

### Projects / people updates

**ARM**

RV: I managed the IPI done.

RV: I finished the uksignal updates.
uksignal work.

**Paging support**

FP: Waiting for Marc's review.

**ukthread / Musl / clone**

SK: The integration with Musl is still to be done.

SK: The integration with clone needs additional Musl: TLS allocation, Musl initializing.

SK: Still need to work on futexes.

SK: Related to that, the exit() call needs a reorderding.

**VSCode IDE**

RD: Start using it in the community.

**Firecracker support**

There has been progress on getting networking done.
Receiving packets works, sending packets doesn't.

SK: We implemented so far the 1.0 version, and not the newer one 1.1 (Firecracker is using the newer one).

SK: A proper support for newer virtio should be done as a next steps.

**VMware support**

PU: Porting the driver on top of DPDK.

**Hyper-V support**

PV: I was porting the VMbus channel communication.
I can now build an image.
But, it fails right now.
I'm now debugging it.

**Uniprof**

GM: I started into libvmi.
No updates at this point.

**Xen clone-based fuzzing**

* Started porting the changes from Costin.
* Found an heuristic which discard fuzzing similar syscalls many times.
* Started working on a method in which the VM is recreated only after a crash. (now a VM is recreated for each input).

**Generic OS / unkernel fuzzing**

Progress on integrating kAFL + IntelPT.

**Memory randomization / deduplication**

TL: Everything is done, I need to do some a few scripts.

TL: I need to do some cleaning on ASLR (other than that it works).

GG: We did some kind of indirection tables for the deduplication work, to integrate with the memory randomization work.

**Javascript support**

Hi, after looking on Makefile.uk[1] I am not sure if the list of .o files is complete.
How can I find an exhaustive list of what files should be compiled for v8?
https://github.com/unikraft/lib-v8/blob/tserbanescu/v8build/Makefile.uk

**Rust support**

Vlad will get back to Cargo integration.

**Baremetal support**

adminy working on R-Pi3 support.
Will work on a QEMU build for easy debugging.

**kraft / runu / kraftkit**

AJ: Significant progress into the work of getting krafkit on par with kraft.
Core work being done with kraft.

The tool is written in Go, so it should be easy to integrate Gaulthier's toolstack updates.

**CI/CD**

AJ: I didn't have the chance to look through that.

**synchronization / futexes**

Waiting for updates from Simon.

### Others

We answered to the person who asked a question regarding Mirage OS.
He acknowledged it but didn't continue the discussion.

## TODOs and Decisions

RD: Delete the calendar-announce channel.

RD: Look into bot for syncing with calendar.

RD: Add a meeting link in the meeting description.

RD: Talk to Andrei about procfs.

RD: Update virtio drivers require the updating to the modern version (1.1).

RD: Ask SS about hardware randomness support.

RD: Ask for updates for GCOV and SSH server.

TL: Create PR for randomization support in linker scripts.

AA: Build with Javascript Musl
