---
datetime: 2022-04-21T10:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - Marc
  - RăzvanV
  - Sergiu
  - Florin
  - ȘtefanJ
  - Simon
  - Felipe
  - AlexJ
  - Cristi
  - Cezar
  - Hugo
  - RăzvanD
  - Gabi
  - AlexP
---

## Agenda

* Community summary
* Projects / people updates
  * ARM (RăzvanV, Michalis)
  * Paging support (Marc, Michalis, Florin)
  * ukthread / Musl / clone / bincompat (Simon, Dragoș, RăzvanD)
  * procfs (AndreiM)
  * Firecracker support (AndreiT)
  * VMware support (PaulU)
  * Hyper-V support (PaulV)
  * Randomness support (Sebastian, Michalis)
  * SMP (Marc, Michalis, Rene, RăzvanV, CristiV)
  * Uniprof (Gabi)
  * Gcov (AlexP, RăzvanD)
  * SSH server (Alexandra Pirvulescu)
  * Xen clone-based fuzzing (Radu)
  * Generic OS / unkernel fuzzing (Teo)
  * Memory randomization / deduplication (Terry)
  * Javascript support (AlexA)
  * Rust support (Vlad, Dennis, DanU)
  * kraft / runu / kraftkit (AlexJ, Ștefan, Gabi, AndreiA)
  * synchronization / futexes (Adina)
* Others

## Discussions

### Community summary

GSoC applications ended on Tuesday, April 19.
We have 8 applicants, we'll discuss them more thoroughly in May.

The Lyon hackathon is planned to take place on May 14-15, 2022.
We have 28 face-to-face participants and 18 online participants.

There won't be a hackathon on Saturday, April 23, 2022, due to the Eastern Orthodox Easter.

### Projects/ People Updates

**ARM**

RV: The BTI needs to be rebased and that will be OK.

RV: I found the issue with the bitshift last week.

**Florin**

RD: Florin, did you create a PR for allocator buddy?

FP: Yes PR created.
I have asked Marc to check it, to see if there is anything else should be added.

MR: I have not yet looked at it yet, but I'll look at it probably starting next week.

FP: If there is anything wrong there, I'll update, please keep me updated it.

**ukthread / binary compat**

RD: The next part is musc/bin-compat support.
Due to personal reasons, Dragos could not work on it this week.
So far what we did, as Gabi knows, is during the last hackathon we worked on the elf-loader and tested it but there was some issues with LwIP.
Simon was able to fix these issues yesterday.
Today, I will test more apps using the bin+compat layer and check for any issues and what overheads in performance may occur at this point.
We need to see what issues arrise from native Linux PIE executables on Unikraft.

SK: You've summarised quite well the last events of the week, but yes it was mainly work on two fronts: integration into musl, a bunch of new PRs which modify the scheduling, TLS and shim layer code.
We need to rebase the elf-loader code to 0.8 as it's currently on 0.7.
Next steps is to check networking code.

**procfs support**

RD: There's a `/proc/self/exe` file that is needed, as shown by the binary compat work.

SK: Related to this, there will be some interaction between procfs and `posix-process` because threads that have a process context and a PID, those should populate entries within procfs and we need an interface there to facilitate to this.
Because PID generation is part of `posix-process`.

- RD: TODO item is to do this and provide overview to Andrei on how to implement this.

**Firecraker support**

- RD: There has been good progress on this, successfully running helloworld on FC.
But there are some issues regarding virtio-mmio and found a way to circumvent this but this may not be a good solution to this on the Discord channel.
Andrei is able to start the interface and get an IP, but ping does not work.

AT: Rebased the virtio-mmio draft and booting part of Firecracker to `unikraft:latest`.
Currently `app-httreply` (on Firecracker) manages to set an IP address, but doesn't respond to ARP requests or ICMP echo requests.
I am investigating further.

FH: Simon, please get in touch get with him today to see if it's an issue with his host set up.

SK: I can do that this afternoon.

**VMware / Hyper-V Support**

RD: Next item is platform support VMware and Hyper-V.
This is also issues with the networking side -- progress generally.
Paul(s) are working on the networking side.

**drivers**

RD: We had a discussion about driver support, just before this meeeting.
There needs to be a set of design discussions/decisions on how driver support should occur in Unikraft.
Talks will start in May, implementation will happen after 0.9 release following experiences on platform support and "what is the proper way" of adding driver support in Unikraft.

**RNG**

RD: The random generator support, there is a PR from Sebastian, who has now updated the PR, renaming the library to `ukrand` and got it working with x86.
Let's postpone checking until next week since the PR is still in draft.

**Uniprof**

RD: For Uniprof, we're having a meeting after this meeting.

**SMP**

RD: SMP support -- waiting until May (to have it ready for the 0.9 release).

RV: Current issue is related to interrupt.
Next week is focusing on proper SMP work.

**GCov**

AP: No updates yet.

**SSH server**

RD: SSH server updates. Alexandra is working on this, updated diagram shows structure/arch in the Discord server.
Marc, you've approved this right?

MR: Yes, technical work has begun.

**fuzzing**

Radu: Thanks to Costin Lupu who has integrated my recent changes.
Current work w.r.t. to copy-to-user mechanism similar to Linux.

RD: Maybe Marc / Simon you can shed a light on this opinion:
"If a system call does something nasty, there's a seg fault on Linux.
It returns -1 and updates errno."
We think the interface should be similar, if a bad address is passed to an address, it should return something similar.
But a similar mechanism should return, and not crash the unikernel.

MR: I have already written a library for this, called `uknofault`, it's not upstream, it's part of debugging, "if there is a pagefault/segfault then this function just returns -1."

RD: It needs to be integrated into syscall implementations?

SK: It's a bit conflicting because we're special-purpose, and if a program does something nasty, in Linux it "traps" it, and performs all these checks.
On one hand, we should mimic Linux, but it adds some costs.

MR: So the copy operation itself does not have extra costs, you just register an exception handler, if the copy operation is bad.
The overheads is extra size in binary and more operations on the fault part.

RD: Just to adapt to this, this idea started with the fuzzing work.
You don't want to crash the app when a bad syscall happens.
For a more general usecase, we may not want this.
IMHO, this functionality should be configurable: e.g. during deploy you remove it all together.
Maybe it's better to crash it sooner rather than later.

SK: Sometimes you need to clean up after a crash, e.g. like in the filesystem.

MR: It's not so easy to integrate, because you have to design syscalls to work in crash situations.
E.g. if you want to do some op on the memory, to be safe you need to copy the memory first with the "safe" function which handles the errors, then you can safely operate on the memory.
But this means you must always copy the memory.
I think the whole picture, this needs some redesign on the syscall and it will add overhead.
Perhaps you copy data with safe functions and this will add overhead.

SK: On some syscalls you can do a shortcut which doesn't handle copy.
If at all, definitely configurable.
Not sure at this point.
Let's get the whole debugging suite in first.

RD: Marc, would it be possible to access to `uknofault` implementation?

MR: It's on my public github, but i can create a PR.
With the events system in, we can actually upstream it.

SK: Actually it should be a target to get the debugging stuff in for the next release.

RD: Radu, get in contact with Marc to access this code and it will be useful for you and provide experience for you in integrating the changes to syscalls.

**kraftkit**

AJ: There is a plugin-based feature in kraftkit.

AJ: I've spent a bit yesterday tidying up my work so Stefan and Gabi can start working on this.

## TODOs and Decisions

RD: Schedula a discussion with AndreiM with interaction procfs and posix-process.

RD: Schedule discussions on driver shim starting with May 2022.

SK: Have a quick debugging session with AndreiT on Firecracker issues.

APv: Provide update on SSH server in Unikraft (for AWS debugging).

AA: Provide update on Javascript support.
