---
datetime: 2022-06-23T10:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - AlexJ
  - Simon
  - GabiM
  - EduardV
  - Cezar
  - AndreiT
  - RÄƒzvanD
  - AndreiM
---

## Agenda

* Community updates: Aachen hackathon, USoC'22, Romania community meeting, talks, GSoC
* Technical tracks (quick tour): SMP + synchronization, Musl + syscall + futex + clone, application compatbility (posix socket driver, event API) virtual memory, AWS console, procfs, ukstore + metrics, RISC-V, Rust, SGX, new hypervisors / VMMs, binary compat, shadow stack, kraftkit, documentation, profiling
* PR / Issue status / assignments (early preparation for release 0.10)
* Others

## Discussions

### Community updates

RD: We have the Aachen hackathon happening this weekend.
It will be lead by myself and Cristi Vijelie.

RD: We'll have USoC'22 in end of August, beginning of September 2022.
We'll start organizing it in early July.

RD: Also we plan for the Romania Unikraft Escape in late September 2022.
We'll also start organizing it in early July.

RD: We want to have a hackathon east trimester.
So USoC + other 3 hackathons per year.
We're in discussions of doing a hackathon in Manchester in October-November 2022.

GSoC participants have started working.
Good progress from Sairaj (synchronization) and Xiangy (Unikraft on SGX).
Maria (shadow stack) has her last exam tomorrow (Friday, June 24, 2022).
First blog post is scheduled next week.

AJ: LinuxCon at the Open Source Summit - today in the event - it's prerecorded

### Technical tracks

**Firecraker**

AT: On Firecracker, networking is working.
Marc made changes to the block device support.

AT: I found a warning in Firecracker virtio caused

AT: We have support for both legacy and modern devices.

SK: It's more lightweight to run Unikraft with Firecracker.

SK: Firecracker requires the recent implementation (modern) of devices

RD/SK: It's likely we would use Firecracker as the main VMM for Unikraft.

RD/SK: Integrating Firecracker support in the core is going to require re-architecting of platform support.

AT: I will be in internship until January 2023, then I'll be back for master studies.
I'll be involved in the project.

**RISC-V**

EV: I managed to port newlib and ramfs is working and the sched coop.

EV: I'm trying PCI working for the 9pfs.

EV: The PR should be done once we have most internal libraries workig.

SK: For the 0.10 release we are doing a rework of the scheduling.
That may require a rebase.

EV: I completed my diploma project.
I've more time for the project, I'll work on getting it upstream.

RD/SK: This will obviously require in depth re-architecting discussion.

Newlib + Musl are supported for RISC-V.

**procfs**

AM: The implementation side of procfs is more or less done.
Things work, but in draft format (initial take), we need to talk more.

**ukstore**

CC/SK: The dynamic part + network statistics are scheduled for 0.10.

CC: The dynamic entries PR is rebased.

**fixdep**

CC: I worked on fixdep.
The only fix I could think of is to create a file for each flag.
The main problem for this solution we need to see which file.

SK: Postpone fixdep discussion after 0.10.

**Profiling**

GM: Look into libvirt / libvmi to see if we can do unikernel profiling via those.

**ELF Loader**

0.11 is realistic for the ELF loader

**Kraftkit**

AJ: I'm working on ukbuild for kraftkit.
All repositories will have the a branch where the stable version is located.
A question I have is how to support different versions.

SK: It probably makes sense to add this as a maintainers meeting.
A trade-off of maintainabilty and usability.

### PR / Issue status

Updated milestones for new PRs: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pulls

## TODOs and Decisions

AT: To create PR for updating virtio support.

RD: Settle discussion on procfs support.

SK: Do a pass through the dynamic part of ukstore.

CC: Comment on fixdep issue with the current solution

GM: Look into libvirt / libvmi to see if we can do unikernel profiling via those.

RD: Add kraftkit version management to the next maintainers meeting.
