---
datetime: 2022-01-05T13:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - Alex, Cristi, Cezar, Gabi, PaulU, PaulV, RăzvanD, Daniel, RăzvanV, Wikus, Dennis, AlexA, AndreiT, AlexP, AndreiM, Marc, Vlad, Florin, Ștefan, AndreiA, Sebastian
---

### Agenda

* Community events (reminders)
* Unikraft at Google Summer of Code
* Next release (January 31, 2022)
* Quick tour of Unikraft community projects and owners
* Summary of student projects (diploma, master)
* SMP
* Bootloaders
* kraft
* Governance, CI/CD
* Platform support (VMware, Hyper-V, Firecraker)
* Rust
* Profiling (Uniprof)
* fixdep
* IDE (VSCode)
* Other topics

### Discussions

#### Community Events

ASPLOS'22: https://asplos-conference.org/attend/#venue
* Will be face-to-face in Lausanne (Switzerland).
* The Unikraft tutorial has been accepted: https://asplos-conference.org/tutorials/
* We need updates to the content: https://asplos22.unikraft.org/
* We need tutors. We don't know whether the tutorial will take place face-to-face or not.

FOSDEM'22: https://fosdem.org/2022/schedule/events/
* Will be online
* Two talks accepted
* The CI/CD talk is accepted but isn't present on the website.
* The virtualization high-level talk has been rejected.
* The monitoring talk (Prometheus, ukstore) doesn't have a response yet.

#### Unikraft at GSoC'22

https://opensource.googleblog.com/2021/11/expanding-google-summer-of-code-in-2022.html

Organizations (such as Unikraft) apply in February 2022.

#### Next Release

Planned for January 31, 2022. Please see PRs for the release and start working on them: https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/projects/12/views/1

#### Unikraft OSS

Please check this Google Drive folder[1]: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/19ldMwSRkDIprPZKM9qXIMHfTWlY8eXSz?usp=sharing

More specifically, please look into:
* Unikraft - Student Projects: these are projects that students are working on (students, affiliation, projects)
* Unikraft - OSS - Contributors: these are active members / contributors to Unikraft; if students have a lengthier contribution (generally complete a project), they are "promoted" to this document (from the Unikraft - Student Projects document)
* Unikraft - OSS - Planning: here we have something similar to a Gantt Chart, mapping contributors / student involvement to projects using a monthly calendar; the number in brackets is the estimated number of hours / week.

See if everything looks OK to you. I will fill the Unikraft - OSS - Planning document this week to cover the first quarter of 2022 (i.e. January, February, March 2022).

#### SMP

CV: No updates for me. I'm waiting for Marc to do the review.

RV: There is a draft PR for ARM SMP. We found a bug in spinlocks. Marc found what's happening. Marc + Michalis are involved in the PR.

RV: Safer to be left for 0.8 release.

CV: The SMP API is already upstreamed.

#### Bootloaders

CV: There has been no discussion since the last meeting.

#### kraft

kraft is pretty stable. It needs to be moved from staging to stable.

It needs to have a proper `.deb` files done. There is a CI/CD system doing that.

Having a tool that updates forks automatically.

#### Firecraker

RD: To schedule a call.

#### Hyper-V

PU: I was able to create a simple kernel to boot a simple kernel and boot and print "A". This is generation 1 that allows BIOS-based booting.

#### Rust

VB: Waiting for Simon to do the PR.

AJ: We need a linting system for Rust. Give some recommendations on how that should look like.

VB: We can use the Linux approach.

#### fixdep

CC: I haven't done much since the report last time. I will work on this on Saturday.

CC: Most of the steps are already in Unikraft, it's a matter of putting things together.

#### Profiling

GM: I need to talk to Marc about running nginx on Unikraft.

RD: Schedule call for GCOV / GPROF.

### TODOs and Decisions

* MR: Review the SMP PR.
* RD: Discussion with CV.
* RD: Schedule a call on kraft improvements.
* RD: Ping Marc about 343.
* RD: Discuss for severs in UPB for CI/CD.
* RD: Schedule a call on Firecraker: Cristi, Costi, Vlad, Andrei Topală.
* RD: Ask Simon for someone else to do the Rust PR.
* RD: Trigger discussion with Alex Pîrlea and Gabi Mocanu.
* RD: Schedule discussion on IDE.
* RD: Discuss with Paul about virtio.
