---
datetime: 2022-06-09T10:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - AlexJ
  - Florin
  - RăzvanV
  - Sergiu
  - RăzvanD
  - Simon
  - Michalis
  - AndreiM
  - Cezar
  - CristiV
---

## Agenda

* Release 0.9 planning
* Community updates

## Discussions

AJ: We'll make more noise on the next PR.

SK: Proposal to use the stable branch to freeze a release.
This is useful for the binary compatibility mode.

SK: If you clone repositories and use staging, the likelihood is to have issues.

AJ: The main branch is reported for statistics.

SK: I'm concerned about users cloning the repository and using staging, instead of stable.

AJ/RD: We will discuss role updates at the maintainers meeting next Monday.

RD: Next release (0.10) will focus on application compatibility.
Planned items:
* clone
* Musl
* signal
* mmap
* posix socket driver
* futexes
* ukstore (dynamic)
* paging / virtual memory support for ARM

We already have 11 applicants for the Aachen hackathon (June 25-26, 2022).
Likely Cristi Vijelie will be able to attend.
I'm making the necessary arrangements for that.

We will kick off the GSoC discussions these days.

Let's focus on the release before other items.

## TODOs and Decisions

FP: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/378

RD: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/466

MR: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/450

MP: https://github.com/unikraft/lib-libsodium/pull/3

MP/RV/MR: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/469, https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/373

SK: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/342

SK: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/435

RD: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/316

MP: Will work on the VM API for ARM.

RD: Schedule GSoC meeting.

RD: Arrange logistics for Aachen hackathon.

RD: Announce maintainers meeting.

AJ/RD: Create release messages and do announcements.
