---
datetime: 2022-03-31T10:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - AlexJ
  - RăzvanD
  - CristiV
  - Felipe
  - Simon
  - Cezar
  - AndreiM
  - Gabi
  - RăzvanV
  - Sairaj
---

## Agenda

* Post 0.8 release
* Plan for release 0.9: SMP, ukstore, musl + ukthread, VM API on ARM, baremetal
* Community events summary
* Meetings summary
* Technical tracks: ARM support, paging API, ukthread, musl, VMMs, kraft, Loupe
* Others

## Discussions

### Post 0.8 release

RD: Release went really well.
We got to less than 40 PRs.
Many thanks to Marc, Michalis and Simon for their work.
And to Alex for taking care of the release output.

AJ: Thank you to everyone to the 21 number of contributors.
Thanks for the reviewing and contributing.

FH: The first release was a mess.
This was a smooth release.

SK: Thanks for the work done.

RD: We have good documentation and good governance.

RD: Everyone has been very responsive and helped a lot during the last week.

AJ: Add people for the contributors channel.

AJ: If your PR has been merged, you should be able to be added to Discord.

### Plan for 0.9 release

SK: There is going to be a huge PR for ukthread / Musl.

SK: We'll have to prioritize what items we want to have in 0.9.

RV: We have the signal PR that should be added to the release as well: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/314

SK: sigset_t may not make it in the 0.9 release, due to dependencies to ukthread.

FH: Submitted talks to conferences.

AJ: Andrei, could you please join the runu meeting.

AJ: Organize on following multiple tracks.
Have issues on multiple tracks.

### Community Events

There will not be a Xen Summit in Bucharest 2022 due to Ukraine war.
We will do one in June 2023.

We plan to organize USoC 2022 in late August, early September, online, on Discord.

We will organize three hackathons in spring-summer 2022:
* Lyon (France): May 14-15, 2022
* Aachen (Germany): likely June 2022
* China: likely July 2022

We will organize an Unikraft escape / social meeting in Romania in September 2022.

### Community Meetings

All online, on Discord

Community meeting: weekly, Thursday, 10am CEST

Maintainers meeting: once every two weeks, Monday, 11am CEST, April 4, April 18, 2022 and so on

VMM meeting: weekly, Wednesday, 12pm CEST

kraft meeting: weekly, Wednesday, 1pm CEST

Hackathon: weekly, Saturday, 9am-1pm CEST

### ARM Support

RD: PL031 RTC

RV: The PSCI is created and waiting for review.

### SMP

There is work to be done on integrating SMP with the memory API, for using ACPI tables.

There is a discussion on SMP / TSS on the x86 SMP PR.

### Paging ARM

Will be startf by Michalis.

### ukthread / Musl

On Musl integration we work on two points:

1. Proper integration into syscall shim: Musl should provide the syscall wrappers.
We have an integration point where we do a direct call to the syscall function.
There is work to be done such that the shim layer will redirect system calls as function calls.

2. The clone system call to provide the thread integration.

We are now able to use the clone system call.
This needs to be integrated with the threading API as well.

SK: The PR is in a dirty stage.
I needs to update the history.

SK: I would expect in the 2-3 weeks the PR is out.

### VMM

Unikraft is good but it depends on the VMM.
QEMU is not good on performance and efficiency.

VMMs were never looked at.
But with Firecracker and Intel Cloud Hypervisor we could get the power of unikernels.

CV: Multibootv2 relies on GRUB ISO image.

### kraft

AJ: kraft is going to be released early next week.

AJ: We are planning to build a new version of kraft (kraftkit).
We want to get a parity version.
We will write in Go, this is substantially easier.
There are a lot of tasks: we're assemblying a team to work on.

AA: The KVM works.
On the Xen side, I still have issues.

## TODOs and Decisions

RD: Discuss with Sergiu about CI/CD system.

RD: Add people to the contributors channel.

AJ: Create a new issue type for tracks.

RD: Add item on syscall support for ARM64.

RD: Add boot support to maintainers meeting.

RD: Ping Sergiu and Simon about reviewing the PRs.

CV: Some work to be done next week after Marc's work on virtual memory API.

SK: Check the TSS proposal / issue on the SMP x86 PR.

RD: Plan for Unikraft community meeting in Romania in September 2022.
