---
datetime: 2022-01-12T13:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - RăzvanD, RăzvanV, Sergiu, Felipe, AlexJ, CristiV, Cezar, Vlad, Dennis, AlexP, Gabi, PaulV, AndreiM
---

### Agenda

* Community events (reminders)
* SMP
* Bootloaders
* kraft
* ARM
* Governance, CI/CD
* Platform support (VMware, Hyper-V, Firecraker)
* Rust
* Profiling (Uniprof)
* fixdep
* Loupe
* IDE (VSCode)
* Other topics
* PR walkthrough
* Documentation site demo

### Discussions

#### Community events (reminders)

TODO

#### SMP

CV: Review required from Marc.

RV: There is a review from Marc on the SMP boot side.

RV: I'm working on the interrupt back-end.

RV: With the SMCC PR we will have all the PRs merged.

RV: The spinlock PR has been merged.

#### Bootloaders

RD: I'll arrange a meeting.

#### kraft

RD: SJ did a review on my PR.

RD: I will rebase it.

#### ARM

RV: The ticketlock PR will be merged.

RD: mmap API postponed for the 0.8 release.

#### Governance, CI/CD

AJ: MR did the approved.

AJ: CI/CD: 2 things:

1. We migrated the server infrastructure.
   We didn't migrate the release website.
   Every library needs to has a step to save it into our mirror repository.
   We use storage from OVH.
   It's ready, we just need a front end.
1. Auto-bump libraries.
   It's already part of Unikraft.
   We have to make it part of the CI/CD.

#### Platform support (VMware, Hyper-V, Firecraker)

PU: I'm still struggling with the setup you provide.

PU: I've looked to see differences between VMware Workstation and ESXi.

PU: There could be some platforms with respect to hardware.

PV: Still debugging on the serial console.
It was not booting anymore because of a bad boot sector.
The kernel reboots when moving from real-mode to privileged-mode.

CV: It may be because a double fault or triple fault.

#### Rust

RD: Find another assignee instead for the Rust PR.

VB: The user space part is orthogonal and would require Musl.

#### Profiling (Uniprof)

GM: I talked with Marc about the Nginx Xen issue.
I will look into the issue.

GM: The other issue is that a misconfiguration on the 9pfs configuration in the Xen system at UPB.

#### fixdep

CC: First of all, I got it working and I was happy.
But then I understood that I should recompile files when compiling options changing.
The current issue is that compiler flag updates don't trigger

#### Loupe

SM: No updates from me.
I asked Hugo about potential work items to do next.

#### Other topics

AM: I'm around the start.
I studied more the documentation on the Prometheus + ukstore.
I more or less understood the examples put to Cezar about ukstore.
I would try to implement a simple features.

AJ: There are some known locations that you would need to expose, based on the vfscore.

AP: Be part of a GCOV meeting.

#### Documentation site demo

Done by Alex

### TODOs and Decisions

* RD: Arrange meetings
* Everyone: Work on PRs for the 0.7 release
