---
datetime: 2022-07-21T10:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - Simon
  - Marc
  - RăzvanV
  - RăzvanD
  - AlexJ
  - Eduard
  - Cezar
  - ȘtefanJ
---

## Agenda

* Community summary
* Updates

## Discussions

### Community summary

Unikrat Summer of Code 2022 hapenning for 10 days: August 29-September 9, 2022.

Munich hackathon settled for October 22-23, 2022.

### Updates

AJ: kraftkit is working.
A lot of parts are working.

AJ: I want to post resources about this.
I was busy with the release part.

AJ: I'll open it to all contributors.
You'll then be available to use it and provide feedback.

AJ: Today I will make an internal release.

AJ: We hope to have a parity release in September, matching the functionality of the current kraft.

AM: I managed to test the uknetdev for a procfs file.

SK: Wait for SK to do the review.

CC: The PR is a proof of concepts.
From my point of view, one with some experience.

CC: I did most of the review for posix-socket driver.
MR will provide an patch to test nginx with.

CC: Start testing with the PR.

EV: I managed to get apps working.
I've marked the PR as draft.

MR: An option would be also paging.

EV: Paging is enabled.

MR: The x86 SMP is out.
I separated multiboot arguments.
We may look into how we can pass these parameters via the bootloader.

What's missing is it's operating with the legacy controller, not the advanced one.
Timers and I/O are handled by the legacy device.

They were used in the early phase.

I did a PR on posix-user with cleanup commits, with some cleanup work.

MS: I've added support for shadow stack for helloworld.
I'm trying all sorts of applications, with documentation.

MS: I'll try to see some other shadow stack mechanisms work.

RD: I will arrange a 30 minutes discussion with Simon and RV about the 

RV: There is an issue that Sairaj mentioned.
The halt doesn't work.
I thought it was an easy fix, but it is more complicated than that.

RV: The GICv3 issue is still in place.

SK: Review ukstore (dynamic).

SK: I had a longer discussion with Dragoș on Musl support + TLS.
TLS is structured differently on different architecture.
I had a revisit to the API to 

SK: Dragoș needs to rewrite the `__libc_start_main()` for the initialization.
The way it's done at this point doesn't work because of ELF header parsing that's not available for Unikraft.

SK: We can use the Pthread API or the native API.
Musl depends on their internal pthread structure for all calls.
We need to hook a callback back to update the TCB in libc.

SK: The internal API needs to update via a callback and libc needs to provide that callback.
Both the native API and libc need to communicate to each other.

SK: The interfaces we provide should work together with other components.

SJ: I created two PRs: clock_getres syscall, another one is the sigaction call that is also part of another PR.
I tried to port ZeroMQ for bincompat, but it requires `clone`.

Brainstorming meeting
- Interactive board: jamboard
- 1 year plan
- Unikraft should be here, Unikraft should do that
- We will target the entire ecosystem

## TODOs and Decisions

RV: Ping Michalis about GICv3 support.

Friday, July 22, 8:30: meeting with SK, RV, RD

RD: Ping SS about the PR and review.

SJ: Look into paging PR for ARM64.

SK: Look into PR from SS.

RD: Find two additional reviewers for SMP.
