---
datetime: 2022-05-07T10:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - Gabi
  - Ștefan
  - RăzvanD
  - AlexJ
  - Gaulthier
  - RaduN
  - RăzvanV
  - Simon
  - AndreiT
  - CristiV
  - Cezar
  - Felipe
  - Sergiu
  - PaulV
  - adminy
---

## Agenda

* Updates to the review process
* Events summary: GSoC, Lyon hackathon
* Projects / people updates
  * ARM (RăzvanV, Michalis)
  * Paging support (Marc, Michalis, Florin)
  * ukthread / Musl / clone (Simon, Dragoș)
  * VSCode IDE (Adina, Ștefan)
  * procfs (AndreiM)
  * Firecracker support (AndreiT)
  * VMware support (PaulU)
  * Hyper-V support (PaulV)
  * Randomness support (Sebastian, Michalis)
  * SMP (Marc, Michalis, Rene, RăzvanV, CristiV)
  * Bootloader support (CristiV, Aadhi)
  * Uniprof (Gabi)
  * Gcov (AlexP, RăzvanD)
  * SSH server @Alexandra Pirvulescu
  * Xen clone-based fuzzing (Radu)
  * Generic OS / unkernel fuzzing (Teo)
  * Memory randomization / deduplication (Terry)
  * Javascript support (AlexA)
  * Rust support (Vlad, Dennis, DanU)
  * Baremetal support (adminy)
  * kraft / runu / kraftkit (AlexJ, Ștefan, Gabi, AndreiA)
  * CI/CD (AlexJ)
  * synchronization / futexes (Adina)
  * on hold / to be picked up: security assessment, driver shim, DLang support, RISC-V, virtio-mmio/vsock integration
* Others

## Discussions

### Review Process

Keeping the reviewer engaged.
The reviewer will approve the review and take part in a discussion with the maintainer.
Only then will the reviewer post the `Reviewed-by: ...` message.

SK: This is something we already did as part of several PRs.
That was very useful, keeping the reviewer engaged.
Otherwise, the maintainer thinks the reviewer is left out.
It's more of a teamwork effort.

### Technical

**ARM**

RV: Waiting for review from Michalis.

RV: Almost done with the BTI PR.
Michalis has to do a review.

**MM**

Michalis is working on the ARM support.

**ukthread**

SK: I'm reimplemting the internal version of PID handling.
If you create a thread and it exits, it breaks down the whole system.

SK: We will Musl as a replacement for pthread-embedded.
And also use it for binary compatibility.

SK: We will have an ELF loader that will load a binary loaded for Linux.
We are mimicking the Linux syscall interface.

**VSCode IDE**

We plan to do a testing round at the hackathon.

Ștefan to do reviews on the VSCode IDE PRs.

**procfs**

vfscore part created by AndreiM.

**Firecraker support**

AT: Working towards providing networking support via virtio-mmio.

There is a virtio-rand device that could be queried.
It makes sense to use that if is part of the hypervisor.

PV: The Intel cloud hypervisor, Unikraft doesn't boot.

**SMP**

RV: I didn't progress on that.
I will create a draft PR on the GIC update.

MP/MR: They will look into this in May.

RV: April to get things implemented.

CV: Be able to do review on x86 (Marc) in May.

**Bootloader support**

CV: Waiting for reviews from Sergiu and Simon.

**Uniprof**

GM: I tested SQLite and I have some graphs.
I can't test with Redis and Nginx because of the networks.

SK: MR and MS have an update version of QEMU.

**Memory Randomization / Deduplication**

GG: We are targeting Eurosys in May 2022.
Testing includes the link-time randomization for deduplication.

Terry will submit a PR with ASLR sometime in May.

GG: We'll keep you connected abou

**synchronization / futexes**

SK: There will open items for the futex library.

SK: My plan is to have it as part of a big stack of PRs.
Once that is out, she could then improve that.

**CI/CD**

SergiuW is going to provide

**kraft/kraftkit**

We have a repository that works in terms of structure.

The `.kraftrc` file stores links to repositories.
To get the list we need to use the GitHub API.
The alternative is to host the list somewhere else.
The way around it is to write the libraries you want as part of the `.kraftrc` file.

RD: Ștefan to document this.

SK: It would be nice to have manifest files.

AJ: This has been discussed.
We will have a repository called index.
This contains lists of where you can find components of Unikraft.

## TODOs and Decisions

RV: Review ARM PRs.

RD: Schedule discussion on RTC subsystem logic with Michalis and Sergiu.

RD: Schedule discussion on baremetal support with adminy.

SK: I will push the `clone()` call.

RD/AT/PU/PV: Create blog post with VMMs support in Unikraft.

SM/SK: Review the Multiboot2 PR.

RD: Schedule discussion on profiling KVM + Xen.

AA: Build v8 against current Musl.
Alternatively, try to build it as a static binary.

AS: Use the SMP PR to test the synchronization.

SJ: Add documentation on the use the `.kraftrc` files.
