---
datetime: 2022-01-26T13:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - AlexJ
  - AlexA
  - CristiV
  - Cezar
  - RazvanD
  - Sergiu
  - Vlad
  - Hugo
---

### Agenda

* Preparation for release: PR walkthrough
* Documentation website
* Other topics

### Discussions

AJ: If a PR is reviewed and approved, it will be merged eventually. It's all done, no need to worry.

Separate release for kraft.

kraft / Unikraft release alignment in 0.8

HL: The ASPLOS'22 registration are going to close soon.

AJ: What is the status of Xen Summit'22.

RD: It's likely going to happen on June 13-16, 2022.

RD: Ping George about the opportunity of the Unikraft workshop for Xen Summit'22.

RD: Schedule an ASPLOS tutorial call next week.

### TODOs and Decisions

* MR: Approve: https://github.com/unikraft/fork-lwip/pull/1
* AA: Rewiew, RD: Approve: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/105
* AJ: Approve: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/131
* RV: Status update: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/336
* RD: Assign new owner: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/280
* RD: Status of parallel build track with Roxana: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/337
* RD: Talk to Daniel, Gauthier, Terry: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/239
* RD: Talk to Michalis: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/233
* MR: Approve: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/308
* SK/AS: Review: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/192
* DD: Reiew: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/251
* HL: Work on: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/240
* AJ: Review: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/226
* AJ: Review: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/219
* AJ: Approve: https://github.com/unikraft/lib-newlib/pull/3
* RD: Talk to FP: https://github.com/unikraft/lib-libsodium/pull/3, https://github.com/unikraft/lib-libsodium/pull/4
* DA: Own: https://github.com/unikraft/lib-lwip/pull/3
* AJ: https://github.com/unikraft/lib-lwip/pull/2
* RD: Talk to Andreea: https://github.com/unikraft/driver-shim/pull/1
* RD: Talk to Fredrik: https://github.com/unikraft/app-flask/pull/1, https://github.com/unikraft/app-lua/pull/3, https://github.com/unikraft/lib-lua/pull/2
* AJ: https://github.com/unikraft/lib-nginx/pull/3
* RD: Talk to AP: https://github.com/unikraft/lib-gcc/pull/2
* MR: Review: https://github.com/unikraft/lib-fatfs/pull/1
* AJ: Reply on proposal on image library review
* MP: Review: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/316
* RD: Work on: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/374
* GM: https://github.com/unikraft/kraft/pull/82

* RD: Ping George about the opportunity of the Unikraft workshop for Xen Summit'22.
* RD: Schedule an ASPLOS tutorial call next week.
