---
title: "Community Meeting, October 6, 2022"
tags: unikraft, community
datetime: 2022-10-06T10:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- community
participants:
- Marc
- Sergio
- Adina
- Cezar
- Maria
- RăzvanV
- RăzvanD
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Building applications on aarch64
- Community updates

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Building Applications on aarch64

Full instructions here: https://github.com/mariasfiraiala/scs-work/blob/master/unikraft-scs/unikraft-scs-for-complex-apps.md

Relevant PRs and issues (also mentioned in instructions):
- [Core Unikraft virtio PR](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/519)
- [Newlib PR](https://github.com/unikraft/lib-newlib/pull/21)
- [Core Unikraft nested macros issue](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/issues/532)
- [Correct cross-compiling toolchain for aarch64 issue](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/issues/319)

CC: kraftkit should build the aarch64 version.

CC: Alex has the `run` part for Kraftkit at this point.

MS: I just tested with clang.

MS: There is an issue with GCC aarch64 assembly syntax not compatible with clang.

MS: There are updates to the `strchr()`, `strrchr()` and `strchrnul()` required for newlib in order to make it work with clang.

MS: Buildchain update to be able to use baremetal - done manually.

MS/RD: Good to have better aarch64 build support, but not critical at this point.

### Community Updates

RD: Events:
* hacktober-fest: October 8, 2022
* meeting in Romania: October 13-16, 2022
* Munich hackathon: October 22-23, 2022
* Manchester hackathon: November-December 2022
* Karlsruhe hackathon: January 2023

RD: I will send calendar invites for items about meeting in Romania.

RD: We will likely reschedule community gatherings given the start of the semester at UPB.

RD: The `staging-muslpreview` branch lost its purpose since release 0.11 will include Musl support.
I will talk to Alex and Simon about this.

RV: I've been busy going through items for the 0.11 release.

MR: The `posix-mmap` PR will become available in about 2 weeks.

RD/MR: Unlikely to have `posix-mmap` part of the 0.11 release.

RD: 0.11 will be mostly a Musl-centric release.

0.12 will be a release that enhances application support.

RD: I would like to have the 0.12 release this year. So the latest in mid-December we would have a new release.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

MS: Do a PR with the syntax change required for aarch64 clang `pci_ecam.c`.

MS: Do a PR with the disabling aarch64 errata for clang.

MS: Start a PR documenting the use of clang.

MS: Make a PR with the patches required by the newlib to compile with clang on `AArch64`.

RD: Schedule call with Simon to talk about newlib updates.

RD: Arrange for new meeting timeslot.

RV: Ping people about reviewing / approving 0.11 release PRs.

RD: Add reviewers / assignees to lingering PRs for 0.11 release.
