---
datetime: 2022-04-21T09:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - drivers
participants:
  - Michalis
  - Marc
  - Simon
  - Sergiu
  - RÄƒzvanD
---

### Agenda

* General driver support
* RTC driver subsystem logic

### Discussions

MP: At some point we need to discuss about drivers.
OP would like to start focusing on driver work.

MP: From my point of view, it would be to get some background on what has been done so far.

SK: For the shim layer, the project was about some drivers seamlessly ported to Unikraft from FreeRTOS.
The idea was to get a library that maps drivers to Unikraft-related things.
We could take an unmodified driver and run it on Unikraft with minimal modifications.

MP: We have a higher interface for serial driver.

MR: What was the discussion around the PL031 implementation?

MP: My main concern would be people starting defining their own interface.

MP: At some point we need to think about preventing the addition of too different drivers.

MP: For the initialization part, we ca have something similar to Linux where you have a small subsystem that reads the device tree and then starts doing its work.

SK: This is more like device probing, right?

MP: You could define a part that works on all devices, parses the device tree.

SK: The abstraction was ukbus for PCI.
I would do that as a bus driver.

MR: Maybe we have to generalize the concept more, so that you do not have buses, but a device enumeration.

SK: In the device tree you could have a node for a device bus.
Then it registers another bus which is registered on another driver.

SK: I think the starting point is ukbus, making it more flexible.
At boot time, you need to parse the device tree.

MR: One discussion is how to find / enumerate devices.
And the other is how to interface devices.

SK: What I find complex is the different platforms (ARM and x86).

MP: Let's first establish the ongoing work with SMP and others.
And then we can focus on other items.

SK: We have a bit of a chaotic scheme.

* The enumeration / detection of device trees
* How to organize drivers code-wise
* Which device classes should be part of a platform API and which should be separate

MR: What we need to do is take the time and design things.
And then iterate on these.

SK: I don't see it as a conflict this RTC subsystem.

MR: We should start this discussion for the next release, after the SMP.
Let's get a next step of the creative innovation for the upcoming release.

SK: It was always the case for delaying the decision.

### TODOs and Decisions

SM: Look more into RTC subsystems in other OSes.

RD: Schedule new discussions in May.

We will do a more thorough architecture and start implementing after the 0.9 release, after SMP is upstream.
